Mike.
Hey.
Thanks for coming.
Oh, yeah, of course.
I'm just parked
across the street, so...
Okay. I... I was
just gonna hit the...
Yeah, sure.
I'll meet you out front.
Okay.
Janitor.
Anybody here?
Higher!
Higher?
Okay, you asked for it.
Oh, sweetheart.
All right. Come on down.
Pop-Pop's getting tired.
Aw.
Don't "aw" me.
You take a little break...
Little break.
Go on.
A good kid.
Yeah, she is.
So, how do you like it...
Out west?
I like it.
Wide-open spaces.
Yeah.
Mmm.
Different, anyway.
Yeah.
How you doing?
I'm... Yeah, I'm okay,
you know?
Adjusting.
And Kaylee?
Yeah, she's settling in.
She still asks
about him...
"Where is Daddy?"
She just misses him.
Yeah.
How long you in
town for, Mike?
I'm here...
For the duration,
indefinitely.
I'm, uh...
I'm better.
And I'm sorry
it took me so long.
But I'm not like I was.
I'm back. I'm solid.
I want to be here for you,
for Kaylee, for my family.
That's good.
I'm glad to hear
you're better.
What?
What is it, honey?
Mike, I got to ask.
I mean...
I know I just need to
move on from this,
but I keep thinking
about something.
About what?
How, before Matty died,
like, for a few weeks there,
he was... different.
Different how?
Different...
I don't know.
Moody, you know?
He barely ate.
He wasn't sleeping.
He snapped at me about
the stupidest things.
I started to think
something's up
at work or...
Or someone's sick,
something like that,
but he wouldn't talk to me.
He clammed right up.
Cops aren't real touchy-feely.
You know that.
No.
They're not. No.
But this wasn't
the normal "tough guys
don't cry" crap.
This was more.
I mean...
Did you notice?
I mean, did you feel
anything like that
from him?
I don't...
As far as I remember,
he seemed okay.
He seemed okay to me.
Well, I started to think...
I'm...
I don't know.
I didn't know what to think.
But then...
Three days or four...
I don't remember,
but before he died,
there was this phone call.
2:30 in the morning,
I wake up,
and Matty's not in bed.
And I hear him.
He's talking downstairs.
So... I go to listen
on the stairs,
where he couldn't see.
He gets intense.
Like, he'd be screaming
if he wasn't whispering,
you know?
Matty didn't get worked up.
He'd let things go.
But... But this...
I mean, he was angry.
He was really angry.
What was he saying?
I couldn't make it out.
It was something about...
I don't know.
I couldn't hear it.
But the next morning,
I called him out,
"What the hell was that about?
What's going on?"
And he wouldn't
talk to me.
But I think...
I think he was
talking to you.
Me?
I mean, who else?
Huh?
For one hot second,
I thought maybe
he was catting around...
No, he wouldn't do that.
No, I know.
I know that. But you...
He knew he could call you
anytime he had a problem.
You were thick as thieves,
the two of you.
And there was
something in his voice.
It was...
How he was talking.
It makes me think
it was you.
Stace,
I don't think it was.
I can't recall
any late-night
heart-to-hearts with him,
not around then.
Maybe it was a C.I.
or a case.
Listen.
I know what you're doing,
replaying it over and over,
thinking, "If I'd noticed
this or changed that,
"maybe I could have
done something."
You don't think I haven't had
those thoughts? I do.
Every day.
You got to quit beating
yourself up like this.
Matty's gone.
That's really
all there is to it.
Yeah.
I guess that's that.
It's getting on.
I got to...
Get Kaylee her dinner
and put her to bed.
Uh, yeah.
Okay.
Well, if you want me
to drop by
and keep an eye on her,
I...
I want to help.
See you around.
Where to?
"Francisco."
Yeah.
You know this town?
Yeah, sure.
How well?
You sew this up yourself?
Not bad.
Bet there's
a story there.
Isn't there always?
Yeah.
All right.
Little sting here.
Okay.
That ought to do it.
Now...
You're gonna want to
take it easy.
Keep it clean.
Keep it dry.
Let it heal.
There's a Walgreens
a couple blocks over
on Louisiana.
Maybe go get
yourself a sling.
You don't have one?
Sorry.
Got a cone you can put
around your neck.
Yeah.
It's about the same,
right?
So, it's gonna be $500?
$500.
I can, uh, throw some
pills in for the pain.
This stuff's
essentially Vicodin.
I can give it to you
for $25 a pill...
Maybe drop the price
to $15
for something a little
less human-centric.
I'm an aspirin man.
Tell you what.
Take a couple
on the house.
In case you
change your mind.
You new in town?
Yeah.
Passing through
or sticking around?
Why?
No reason.
It's just,
if you're relocating to
the Land of Enchantment,
I know people.
I could get you
some work.
I am not looking
for that kind of work,
but...
Thanks.
Don't know why
it has to be this way.
Could have been friendly.
Could have talked
in your house.
You really want
the formal treatment?
Lawyer.
Come on, Mike.
It's just
a couple of questions.
Uh, ain't nothing
but a thing.
Lawyer.
You're not under arrest.
Okay, did anybody here
say "arrest"? No.
You want to walk, walk.
I got to say, I, uh,
expected more
cooperation from you
on this, cop to cop.
Lawyer.
Fine.
What lawyer?
Ehrmantraut.
Who's got him and where?
That way.
Hey, fellas.
How you doing?
James McGill.
Here to see my client.
What?
You look like Matlock.
Uh, no.
I look like
a young Paul Newman
dressed as Matlock.
Where's my guy?
Say hello to Barney Fife.
Wrong show,
but thanks for playing.
So, what happened?
The Mayor didn't give you
enough stickers?
You want to tell me
what we're doing here?
Oh, here's your coffee.
Uh, hope it's good
to the last drop,
'cause I'm billing you
the full hour for it.
That's for you.
Oh. That's very
thoughtful.
You serious?
Why did you have me
bring it to you?
All right,
here's what's gonna happen.
Those two cops out there
are from Philadelphia.
They've come
a long way to see me.
When they come in here,
we're all gonna have
a little chat.
And when it's over,
the young one,
who's been writing
in his little notebook,
he's gonna take it
and put it in his jacket.
And when he does that,
I want you to
take that coffee
and spill it on him.
Little accident,
that's all.
And why, pray tell,
would I do that?
Because I'm asking you to.
It's the only reason
you're here.
So I'm here because
you want me to assault
a police officer.
I am asking you to
take a few ounces
of lukewarm coffee
and spill it on him.
I doubt that satisfies
the definition
of "assault,"
but, hey,
you're the lawyer.
Right.
How silly of me.
All you want is for me
to aid and abet
you ripping off
that guy's notepad,
'cause that's what
you're doing here, right?
Huh? What,
are you nuts?
You can't be serious.
Hey, I hate to
remind you of this,
but you owe me one.
The assist I gave you
with the missing persons
problem?
One good turn
and so forth?
You want a good turn?
Here's your good turn,
okay?
I'm gonna behave
like an honest-to-God,
law-abiding,
licensed attorney,
'cause, clearly,
you need one
with whatever the hell
is going on here.
Now, those two jokers
out in the hallway...
I'm gonna make sure
they dot their I's
and cross their T's...
Everything square
and above board.
That's what I'm gonna do,
and you're gonna
be happy as hell
that I'm here.
But this little
Juan Valdez
bump-and-dump... No.
Not gonna happen.
Hey, gentlemen,
we're prepared to
indulge you.
Detective Escalara
will be sitting in with us,
as per APD policy.
Okay with you, right?
Fine with me.
Okay.
You got your lawyer, Mike.
Can we talk already?
Great.
So, like we said,
we're here
looking into this
Hoffman and Fensky thing.
Yeah, and whatever
you can tell us...
Anything at all.
Uh, hold on.
Hold on.
"Hoffman. Fensky."
Fill me in.
Assume I know
absolutely nothing
about my client here,
all right?
Start at the beginning.
Jesus. Seriously?
Look, don't let
Mr. Ehrmantraut's
dancing eyes
and bubbly,
bon vivant personality
fool you.
He's actually,
believe it or not,
somewhat taciturn.
Shall I fan you gently,
so you don't go into shock?
Start at the beginning,
okay?
We're talking
Book of Genesis.
Okay, Mr. McGill,
as you probably gathered,
we...
Detective Sanders and I
work for the Philadelphia
Police Department,
as did Mr. Ehrmantraut
for nearly 30 years.
Philadelphia?
Go, Eagles.
Mr. Ehrmantraut
had a son, Matt.
He, too,
was with Philly PD.
He was a rookie officer
with about two years
on the job.
He was a good cop.
Yes, he was.
About nine months ago,
he responded
to a shots-fired call
in some Westside rattrap.
Matt went in
with his partner,
Officer Troy Hoffman.
They had
Sergeant Jack Fensky
backing them up.
Unfortunately,
things got out of hand.
The three of them
were ambushed,
and, uh,
Matt didn't make it out.
Hoffman and Fensky
returned fire,
but the shooter got away.
We chased a few leads,
shook up the usual suspects...
Came up short.
I'm very sorry
to hear it.
Anyways,
we kept beating the bushes,
kept coming up dry
until three months ago.
That's when Hoffman and Fensky
both turned up dead
in a vacant lot
out in Nicetown.
Again, an ambush of some kind,
it looks like.
And with whoever killed
Matt out there in the wind,
we're thinking...
Well, it's our
operating theory
that Hoffman and Fensky
were mixed up in something,
some bad business,
and maybe that
got Matt killed.
Yeah, sorry. I got to do
my lawyer thing here.
Uh, what does my
client have to do
with any of this?
Uh, Mike,
this is a Hail Mary.
Uh, beyond that.
I mean, if we had
any hard evidence or leads,
we wouldn't be out here.
Now, there's anything
you can tell us
about what
Hoffman and Fensky
were into?
Yeah, help us out, Mike.
Help us catch
the bastard who
killed Matty.
I don't know much
about Hoffman and Fensky.
They were Matt's people.
I'd see them around
sometimes.
I saw them in a bar
the night they died.
It was McClure's,
maybe the Red Dog...
Probably McClure's.
Were they drinking
with anyone?
It's a cop bar.
They were drinking
with everyone.
Yeah, but did you
see them with anyone
in particular?
I couldn't tell you.
I was...
You know how I was.
How you doing
these days?
Feeling like I
crawled out from
the bottom of a bottle
and working hard
to stay there.
Although I've got to say,
doesn't help much,
dredging up the past
like this.
Let me ask you,
uh, when did you come
out here to Albuquerque?
It couldn't have been, uh,
too much later.
I think it was
the very next day.
Yeah? The day after
Hoffman and Fensky
died, huh?
You didn't think
to, uh, stick around
once you heard the news?
I don't think
I heard the news
till I was west
of Kansas City.
Still, you, uh...
You didn't come back
for the funerals, correct?
Even though Hoffman
was Matt's partner?
Uh, do you remember anything
about that night at the bar?
Uh, did you talk to
Hoffman or Fensky
at all?
Sorry. I got nothing.
They weren't my people.
I'm sorry you guys
took a flier on me.
I wish it'd have
paid off.
That it?
We done here?
We're done here, yeah.
Hey, that wasn't
so hard, huh?
Thanks, Mike.
Yeah.
Listen, we're probably
gonna kick around
for another couple of days,
in case you think of
something, all right?
You know, I've never been
out west before.
Oh, hey.
Oh!
Oh, shit!
Jesus. Sorry. Sorry.
Come on!
Here. I can get
most of it.
You got any paper towels?
You know what?
Hey, hey.
I... I got it.
I got it. Thank you.
Sorry.
Oh, for the love of...
You got to do that
right here,
right in front of me?
What's so important
in there
that we had to
pull that third-rate
Marx Brothers routine?
You really want to know?
And risk getting a piece
of an obstruction rap?
No, thank you.
Anything else
you want to ask?
How did you know?
Know what?
That... That I would
do that, that...
How did you know
that I would, uh,
spill that coffee?
What the hell's that?
What's
supposed to mean, huh?
Okay, great.
You're the strong,
silent type.
Hooray for you.
But in case
you missed it,
your friends from
Philly back there?
They think you
killed two cops.
Yep.
Yeah, it's me.
We need to talk.
You call the cops?
What?
Philadelphia PD.
Did you call them?
Yeah, I did.
Why?
Well, I told them
I heard about
Hoffman and Fensky and...
And what?
And you don't think
it's strange?
First Matt,
then not six months later,
his partner
and his sergeant?
Yeah, I called them
to help catch
Matty's killer.
Mike, what if
the same person,
if the...
What if the piece of
shit who got Matty
got them too?
And what exactly
did you tell them?
I told them...
You tell them
Matt was dirty?
Is that what
you told them?
I...
How could you
possibly think that?
That's your husband,
the father of your child.
I didn't say that. I...
I told them I found money.
After Kaylee and I
moved here,
when I was unpacking,
it was in the lining
of an old suitcase.
Matt must have
tucked it away in there,
'cause this was cash...
$5,000, $6,000
from God knows where.
I mean, we were basically
paycheck to paycheck.
Where the hell
did he get it?
Why didn't you ask me?
Why didn't
you come to me?
I couldn't.
I knew what
it would do to you.
First, he's murdered,
and then for you to think...
It would have
burned you to the ground.
There would be
nothing left.
And you wouldn't
talk to me.
Every night,
you were drinking
yourself unconscious,
like you were
the only one
who lost him.
Look, I don't care.
He was dirty,
he was clean...
I don't care.
All I want is for
whoever killed Matty
to rot in a cell for
the rest of their life,
and then I want
whatever's left of them
just dumped in the trash.
That's what I want.
I don't care
where it leads,
what it uncovers.
I mean,
what difference
would it make
if he was... anything?
I'd still love him.
I'd still miss him.
He'd still be gone.
Matt wasn't dirty.
Well, so be
straight with me!
Right now.
This is it, Mike.
What was that phone call
before he died?
Don't bullshit me.
That was between
me and my son.
So you're admitting
it was you.
He wasn't dirty!
Goddamn you!
You get that
through your head!
My son wasn't dirty!
♪ Oh, it came out of the sky
♪ Landed just a little
south of Moline
♪ Jody fell out
of his tractor
♪ Couldn't believe
what he'd seen
♪ Laid on the ground, a-shook,
fearing for his life
♪ Then he ran
all the way to town
♪ Screaming,
"It came out of the sky!"
♪ Well, a crowd
gathered 'round
♪ And a scientist said
it was marsh gas
♪ Spiro came
and made a speech
about raising the mars tax
♪ The Vatican said,
"Woe, the Lord has come"
♪ Hollywood rushed out
an epic film
♪ Ronnie the popular
said it was a communist plot
♪ Whoa
♪ Oh, the newspapers
came and made Jody
a national hero ♪
♪ And my mind goes back
to a girl I left
♪ Long years ago who told me
♪ Just hold on loosely
♪ But don't let go
♪ If you cling too tightly
Just let him cry it
all out, okay?
Hey, Mikey.
Young Hoffman.
Mikey boy.
What's going on,
my brothers?
How you doing?
Brothers, huh?
Good to see you, too.
It's been a minute.
Yeah.
I know.
I know it was you.
♪ Don't let your heart
get in the way
♪ You see it all around you
♪ Good loving gone bad
♪ And usually it's too late
when you
♪ Realize what you had ♪
Closing time, Mikey.
Yeah?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, okay.
Hey, how about I
give you a lift home?
Mmm...
I'm fine.
No, I can't let you drive.
Get you a cab?
No, I'm good.
I'm good.
Don't worry.
Anyway, I sold my car,
so I'm walking.
Thank you.
Albuquerque,
New Mexico.
You ever been?
Nope.
Well...
That's where I'm headed.
Tarantulas, they got.
That's a big minus
in my book.
Well,
I will be on the lookout.
You take care,
my friend.
Take care.
Hey, Mike.
Mikey.
You want a ride?
I'll walk it.
Pull over here.
What are you
doing out here?
Come on.
Let us drive you.
It's colder than
my ex-wife's tit out here.
Come on. Come on.
I'm walking.
Come on. Don't...
Don't be an ass.
Come on.
Let us take you home.
Get in the car already.
It's cold out here.
What?
Come on, Mike.
Come on.
Okay. Easy.
We're gonna have you
home in no time.
Oh, God.
Hey.
What are you doing?
Hey. Give me that.
That's mine.
Later.
We don't want you
to shoot your foot off,
now, do we?
Hey, Mikey.
What?
Mikey, you with us?
Why?
You really tied one
on good back there,
buddy.
Shit, yeah, he did.
Put it away
like they were fixing
to bring back Prohibition.
Hey. Hey,
back at McClure's,
you were talking
out your ass, hmm?
"I know it was you."
What's that
supposed to mean, huh?
You think you know what?
You got
something you want to
get off your chest?
Something you
want to say to us?
You killed him.
You killed Matty.
And you killed him
for nothing.
You killed him
because you were scared
of what you
thought he might do.
You got him
in that crack house...
And you staged it...
Made it look like
a junkie with a gun.
But it was you.
And I know it was you.
And I'm gonna prove it.
Help me get him
out of the car.
What?
Come on.
There you go.
Watch your head.
All right,
come on, Mike, huh?
One, two, one, two,
buddy.
Now, you wait there
one second.
We're gonna work this
whole thing out,
okay, Mikey?
What do we do now?
Hey. Grief,
it's a bitch.
He couldn't live with it...
Matt dying the way he did.
It's too much
for the old man.
So Mikey here decided
to eat his gun.
It's tragic,
but anyone could
see this coming, hmm?
He's drinking
himself to death.
We're doing him
a favor.
Smart.
That's what I would
have done if I were you.
Whoa.
Mike, I...
You let some things slide
and you look the other way.
You bust a drug dealer
that has more cash
than you'll ever
earn in a lifetime.
Some of it
doesn't make it
back into evidence.
So what?
You took a taste.
So did everyone else.
That's how you knew
you were safe.
It's like killing Caesar...
Everyone's guilty.
Matt wasn't dirty.
I was.
Everyone was
in that precinct.
That's how it worked.
You turn in your buddy,
you're screwing yourself.
You go along
to get along.
And you went along.
I did.
Yeah.
Okay.
But you said Matt didn't.
No.
Not Matt.
Fensky got to
Hoffman early.
Kickbacks from
some gang or another...
Protection, basically.
And Hoffman went to Matty
and offered to cut him in.
Only fair, right?
They were partners.
And Matt did
what you would think...
He agonized.
And then he came to me,
wanted to go to the IA,
do the right thing,
shut 'em down.
Oh, my God.
And you let him?
That's why he got killed?
'Cause he was gonna
turn on those guys?
No. No.
I told him...
You know what
a cop fears most?
More than getting shot,
more than anything?
Prison.
Getting locked up
with everybody
you put away.
You threaten a cop
with that,
you make him dangerous,
and that's
what I told him.
I talked sense.
No one
was getting hurt.
But if you
go to the IA,
if you even look
like you're going...
He had a wife,
a kid,
responsibilities.
Take the money.
Do something good with it.
Well...
I tried.
But he wouldn't listen.
My boy was stubborn.
My boy was strong.
And he was gonna
get himself killed.
So I told him...
I told him I did it, too,
that I was like Hoffman,
getting by,
and that's what you
heard that night...
Me talking him down,
him kicking and screaming
until the fight
went out of him.
He put me up
on a pedestal...
And I had to show him
that I was down in the gutter
with the rest of them.
Broke my boy.
I broke my boy.
He went to Hoffman,
he took the money,
but he hesitated.
Even looking like
you're doing the right
thing to those two
meant that he
wasn't solid,
that he couldn't
be trusted.
I got Matty
to take the money.
And they killed him
two days later.
He was the strongest
person that I ever knew.
He'd have never done it,
not even to save himself.
I was the only one...
I was the only one
that could get him
to debase himself
like that.
And it was for nothing.
I made him lesser.
I made him like me.
And the bastards
killed him anyway.
Hoffman and Fensky...
If they killed Matty...
Who killed them?
Pop...
What happened?
You know what happened.
The question is...
Can you live with it?